This is Jockel Pondcast number 287.
Bethesios and me.
Jockel willing.
Good evening, Eco.
Good evening.
And joining us again is Dave Verk, good evening, Dave.
So listen, if you've been tracking, we have been talking about BH LaDale Hart.
We've been talking about his strategy, the indirect approach.
We've been covering his book, the strategy of indirect approach.
Then we rolled into his book, which is just called strategy.
This stuff is, it's just, it's so important to wrap your head around this stuff.
It's a lot of it is counterintuitive when you hear it.
It's counterintuitive when you hear it.
It's sometimes even more counterintuitive when you try and do it.
And if you understand it and you do it and you execute it, it is a game changer in
the way you execute and it's also a game changer in the way you think.
So if you haven't yet listened to 285 and 286, to learn a little bit about BH LaDale
Hart, who is a veteran soldier, a British soldier, World War I, wounded multiple times,
sent back from the front multiple times, sent back to the front multiple times, fought
in the battle of a song.
I mean, just almost as whole the Italian wiped out, gravely wounded with Gai, he was gasped.
I mean, been to how I'm back quite literally.
There's not too many people we can talk about, obviously, that fought in the battle of
a song.
On the last podcast, I was talking about the fact that he, you know, we throw the words
battle tested around, like all this battle tested.
How about battle tested in what's actually the worst battle ever?
That's where he kind of started to think about the strategy and tactics that we're
being used.
This is what sort of when he talks about the indirect approach is the antithesis to what
World War I was.
So if you haven't yet, go back and listen to 285 and 286 and then join us right now with
287 Dave and the intro remarks.
No, you were writing down there.
Yeah, I was thinking about the last podcast that we did and just where he's coming from
and I'm actually super stoked to get to these concluding, these, the end of this section
or this, this trilogy.
Because I was saying this last time I think this is all new.
Like I get to hear this in real time and the sort of the chronology of your very first
introduction from 285 was like, hey, a little bit of the background of heart, but I didn't
really, I didn't really sink in as you were saying it of what you just said, like what
he went through and you said it left a mark on him, but I did not, I did not appreciate
the depth of that mark and what it compelled him to do to try to course correct this massive,
this massive mistake that he had to endure in witness.
So I have, I think I've been able to understand what he's been saying a lot better as you've
been reading it thinking about where he came from.
You know what I should have done is I should have gone, well first of all, I should
have given a little bit more detail there, but I also should have gone back, there's so
many references to be a Tula del Hart in so many manuals, it's ridiculous.
And I should have pulled some of those up and said, oh, when we did this Marine Corps manual,
when I did this Army manual, here's where this come from, here's the roots of this statement
because they, they cite, they cite him.
So I guess part of it is, there's some other podcast that I have in the hopper in my mind
that I want to do that I really can't do without people understanding this idea of the strategy
of the indirect approach.
I just can't, I can't go forward.
It's like I had to do this.
So I will go back, I'm sure, and do some more historical context around his life and
what he went through.
But I also, man, I wanted to get this stuff out there.
You know, it's like a prioritize next Q drill to be quite frank with you.
I would, I wanted to get people to understand this and see how beneficial it can be for their
thought process because it's been so beneficial for my, for the last 30 years of my life,
maybe 20, 25 years of my life where I realized, wait a second.
Going direct isn't always the best thing.
In fact, the more I figured that out, the more I was like, oh, going direct is usually
not the best thing.
Quite often the indirect approach is correct.
It's the correct thing in Jiu-Jitsu, it's the correct thing in battlefield, it's
a correct thing as a leader, it's a correct thing interacting with other human beings.
So that's kind of where we are, how we got here.
You know, a lot, a lot, that's the weird thing about having a podcast and doing things via
podcast is part of the benefit as of it is the immediacy of it.
Like, there's not.
You know, if you write a book, if I was to write a book about this stuff, it would take
three years, now two years.
Like if I just was gave up everything else in set, I'm going to write a book about this,
it would take two years to do, to get it, to get it written, to get it published, to get
it, ever started to get it written, edited, I go, there's so much lag time to do a podcast,
it's like, cool, you know what, here's a book, I've had this book for a long time,
I actually gave you my extra copy of this book.
So, to put to be able to say, you know what, I want to get this done now is the time
to boom, you can go and execute it.
And what you sacrifice is you sacrifice some perfection, right?
You sacrifice some perfection because head, I sat there and thought about the best way to do
this, maybe I would say, you know what I need to, I need an entire episode about the
battle of the song, I need an entire episode about what gassing does to you, I need to
do an episode about his battalion with the Yorkshire Light Regiment, right, and talk about
exactly who is in it.
There's a whole bunch of different things I could have done and it's not, and that's
there, that would have made this better.
And that's one of the, one of the compromises that you make in moving forward and executing,
like, you know what, I'm looking back now, hindsight 2020, cool, should have done that,
didn't do it, we'll do it in the future.
So, where it goes?
Yeah, and even for me, as I, as I contemplate what I'm trying to say, you talk about, you
sacrifice the perfection of your sacrifice, even the way I'm trying to say what I'm thinking
is not exactly right, it's not how I would say it if I spent time to sit down with a
pen and paper and write out what I'm thinking or what I'm thinking about or the references
I'm making in my head, but to be able to sort of reflect in real time as you're reading this,
as inaccurate or not as eloquent as I'd like it to be, it's a really cool exercise, as
they listener of leadership to think about hearing what he's saying, contemplating the
frame of reference he had and how it applies to our world, which is, you don't need
to be in war ever one to recognize how absolutely directly affected you can be by thinking
about what he's saying and applying it to your day-to-day life and how you interact with
people, which is kind of crazy to think about it, but it's also true.
And I guess if there's a problem with any of this, if there's a problem with any of the
things that you're saying is that there's nothing sexy about the indirect approach,
it doesn't like, it doesn't play well.
Like, you're not, I'm going to get up and give a speech about the indirect approach.
Men, we're going to subordinate our egos today.
It doesn't, the language doesn't work. It doesn't give you that satisfaction that people
want with cross-wits the entotal war.
But what's crazy is how obvious it is to think about how it helps you achieve the ultimate
objective, which is winning the war.
And how much more satisfying that is than just winning a battle, or than losing the war.
So for whatever it lacks in the excitement of the language of, we're going to destroy every
single aspect of our enemy down to the ground.
This actually is the tool that you need to be successful in anything.
This is how you actually win.
Is that you win?
That's very counter-cultural.
Like you said, it doesn't sell well.
You can imagine selling well, Jackson standing up and saying, all right, guys, the enemy
is half mile down there.
We are going to take the fight to them and people get fired up as opposed to saying, hey,
the enemy is right down there.
And we're going to walk 14 miles right now to go and hit him for where he doesn't really
expect it because we don't want to have to face his really, we don't want to have to face
his strength.
We're a little scared to do that.
So we're going to walk around and kind of soccer punch him.
You guys with me?
Right?
It's just like, it's really, as opposed to forward into the breach, right?
No, not really.
We're going to sneak around and soccer punch somebody who's with me.
But it's how you win.
So let's jump back into it.
Further revision of theory and trying to revise any theory and readjust it for better balance.
Oh, isn't that interesting?
We're talking about balance because this is everything is a dichotomy.
Again, I owe royalties to the LaDale Heart family.
It is a help to have a background of study in the subject.
As long as one is willing to modify one's conclusions.
Not interesting.
We have to actually be willing to modify our conclusions.
Change our mind.
I was.
So far as I know, the first student of war after 1914 to 1918 to make a re-examination of the
prevailing doctrines derived from cross-rits about the objective in war.
We're calling it in question in number of articles in the military journals.
I was dealt with it more fully in Paris or the future of war 1925.
This little book began with a criticism of the way that the Orthodox aim, quote, the destruction
of the enemy's main forces on the battlefield, and quote, had been pursued in World War
One pointing out its indesisive and exhausting results.
To your point earlier.
Hey, we want to go and confront the enemy head on.
Cool.
We did that for three years, at four years, and we had not only, we had indesisive and exhausting
results.
We were exhausting.
We didn't get anywhere.
God, what a freaking sin.
What a sin to expend all those lives and be exhausted from it and have no real decisive
victory.
Continuing.
I want to argue that the advantages of the moral objective showing how armored forces
might deliver decisive blow against the Achilles heel of the enemy army, which is the
communication and command centers, which form its nerve system and two, how air forces
besides cooperating in this strategic action might also strike with the decisive effect
direct at a nation's nerve system, and that is its static civil centers of industry.
So he's the first guy that said, hey, well, we did in World War One sucked and we shouldn't
do it again.
How about we use freaking tanks and aircraft to pierce the enemy and cut off their communication
and ruin their industries?
Continuing.
The general staff prescribed the book for the study of the officers of the first experimental
mechanized force when this was formed two years later.
The air staff less surprisingly made still fuller use of it.
There was then a lack of textbooks on air strategy and it fitted the developing trend
of their views on the subject.
The chief of staff, the chief of the air staff distributed copies to his fellow chiefs
of staffs.
What I have said now is thus a revision after prolonged reflection of what I wrote a
quarter century ago and an avowl of error over part of the thesis.
So he's taking ownership of something that he screwed up.
It shows how in correcting the balance one is apt to tilt too far the other way.
This is something I call classic team guy over correction.
I would make a, I'd go and guys would be coming through my training.
They'd make a mistake.
Hey, you're micro managing.
Also, they let people do whatever they want or the opposite.
Using the balance it one is apt to tilt too far the other way.
T.E. Lawrence observed in a letter he wrote me in 1928.
His Lawrence of Arabia.
This is a guy that found the error, revolt in the Sinai and Palestinian campaign in World
War.
One, I mean, this guy is a legendary.
And Lawrence of Arabia says quote, the logical system of crosswitz is too complete.
What an opening line.
A logical system of crosswitz is too complete.
It leads a stray his disciples, those of them at least, who would rather fight with their
arms than with their legs.
What a freaking statement to open up a letter.
Rather fight with their arms and with their legs.
What an epic statement.
It's kind of a kind of a goes in with my discipline.
He goes free to them fieldmen.
He'll talk in about, you know, oh, you want to fight?
You want to know self defense?
Cool.
You want to punch me?
I want to run away.
You want to kick me, cool.
I'm going to run away.
I'm going to fight with my legs, not with my arms.
Continuing on, you at present are trying with very little help from those whose businesses
they think upon their profession to put the balance straight after the orgy of the last
war.
When you succeed about 1945, these are like little jokes he's making because he's writing
this in 1928.
When you succeed about 1945, your sheep will pass your bounds of discretion and have
to be shivied back to some later strategist, back and forward we go and quote.
In 1925, I myself went too far and arguing the advantages of the air stroke at civil objectives.
Though I did qualify this by emphasizing the importance of executing it in such a way
as to inflict the least possible permanent injury for the enemy of today is the customer
of the morrow and the ally of the future.
Who would think that that's possible?
Who would think that Germany would become our ally?
Right?
Who would think that the Japanese would rebuild them to a point of economic power where
we're in total cooperation with totally?
My belief then was that a decisive era tack would inflict less total damage in constitute
less of a drain on the defeated countries recuperative power than a prolonged war of the
existing type.
In further study, I came to realize that an era tack on industrial centers was unlikely
to have an immediate decisive effect and more likely to produce another prolonged war of
a tritian in fresh form with perhaps less killing but more devastation than from 1918,
1918, 1914 to 1918.
World war.
But when one began to point this out, one soon found that the air staff was far less receptive
to the revised conclusion than to the original conclusion.
They continued to cherish faith in a speedy decision and when war experienced compelled them
to relinquish it, they pinned their faith instead on industrial attrition as fervently
as the general staff of the last word done to manpower attrition.
We're not learning lessons.
God.
Elective egos at play just not learning lessons.
A lot of this is why, like I said, I've said a couple of times now that this book and
these strategy is a setup for me for another series of podcasts that I want to do and
it's all going to come so become so clear.
Nevertheless, a realization of the drawbacks and evils of taking the civil fabric as the
objective does not mean the restoration of battle in the own sense of the objective.
The drawbacks of that cause wouldn't cause witsy in formula where amply shown in World
War 1.
In contrast, World War 2 demonstrated the advantage of new potentialities of indirect or
strategic action against a military objective, amply confirming what had been forecast
in that respect.
Is he saying, yeah, I told you so?
Yes, he is.
He's saying, I told you so.
I told you that these things, I told you that this error that this mechanized fast moving
elements could change the face of war, especially when coupled with air power.
I told you so.
Even in the past, such action had been effectively exploited by some of the great captains
despite the limitations of their instruments, but now with the help of new instruments,
the airplane, the tank, it proved still more decisive despite the increased strength of
tactical resistance.
The new mobility produced a flexibility in varying the direction of thrust and threat which
disarmed such resistance.
And that's what we talked about in the last podcast.
France, Poland, the Balkans, just disarmed resistance.
The time has come for a fresh revision of the doctrine of the objective or military aim
and light of recent experience and present conditions.
It is much to be desired that it should be undertaken on combined service basis to produce
an agreed solution for there is a dangerous discordance of doctrines at presence.
The outlines of a revised theory fitted to present conditions and knowledge have emerged.
I hope in course of this discussion of the subject, the key idea is strategic operation
rather than battle and old term that has outlived its suitability and utility.
So get rid of this whole idea of battle.
Battles may still occur, but should not be regarded as the aim itself to repeat an earlier
conclusion that was strikingly vindicated in World War II.
The true aim is not so much to seek battle as to seek a strategic situation, so advantageous
that does not of itself produce the decision that if it does not of itself produce the
decision, its continuation by a battle is sure to achieve this.
That's what we're looking for.
And have your opponent recognize that before the battle takes place.
So, optimally, yes, optimally they go, you know what, we don't even have a chance.
If they don't recognize it cool, you're in such a good position that it doesn't matter
anyways in the battles over very quickly.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm writing things down.
I mean, just the things inside what he just said.
I've had just the first thing of the common about study is designed to modify conclusions.
Not to validate your conclusion, like I'm going to go to research and I'm going to literally
just overlook and bypass anything that doesn't align with what I already think I know.
I'm just like, that's not convenient.
So I'm going to skip that.
So I'm going to find, I'm going to study so I can find information to reinforce what I already
know.
He's like, no, I'm doing the study to figure out what I thought that's actually wrong.
To modify my conclusions, the inherent humility in that approach, I'm going to study
to find out where I'm wrong.
I'll hard that actually is to do.
And then he used the airsap, this example, and of course, you know, the airsap is a thing
that didn't even exist.
And now it's this thing where the counter culture there, they're the opposing view of,
hey, we need to look at these things differently.
And then how quickly, how quickly they solidified around their new approach and became the
inflexible rigid, we are going to stick to these conclusions.
We're going to state of these, we are not going to change our viewpoint of this.
And how quickly that process happens to.
Human beings do not change.
No.
They really don't.
And they really like to dig into whatever they got a hold of.
What didn't got a hold of something they hang onto it totally.
It's like trying to pry a little freaking kid, a three year old with a rattle.
You know what I'm saying?
They got that rattle.
Go and try and take that away from them.
Why is that?
It's a human instinct to hang onto what you've got.
And you see the general staff after 32 years of military service in 150 years of combined
military service between these three four generals.
And they have that new rattle that they got a hold of.
And they won't let go of it.
Yeah.
And they're going to kick and scream.
It's disturbing.
It's crazy.
And he said something to that that he's referenced.
You've already said it.
And this one kind of finally stuck is he's making the connection to leadership.
He's not talking about Klaus Wood so much.
He keeps saying about his students, his disciples.
The influence he had on a generation of leaders.
And the tragedy that was created by that based on Klaus Wood's influence over people.
And he's made the illusion too like that really wasn't his intent.
He definitely last podcast.
He definitely pointed out that that was not his intent.
Totally.
But the power for better for worse the power of that leadership.
And if you have disciples and you've said this over and over again.
And again, I don't remember the exact quote, but the uneducated disciples are more dangerous
than the enemy.
And to just blindly follow the language or the words of the leader and just try to go implement
them without truly understanding the context.
And then the evolving application of that to the world that they're going to be in.
It's, I put the front, from those two pages, just pointing out those things.
How critical those things are.
Can you fathom the freaking group think that's going on?
Check it out.
Not only is everyone on my side bought into this bullshit.
So my entire freaking army of millions of people is all bought into this idea and your
side and your millions of soldiers and leaders are all bought to the same idea.
Imagine how crazy that is.
Imagine how crazy it is that our group think is so strong that both opposing sides both
are bought into the same group think at the peril of millions of soldiers.
Like that's not to think how strong that group think is to think I'm looking at you and
you're doing the exact same thing as me and I'm thinking well, we're just going to keep
doing it and you're looking at me thinking we're going to keep doing it and neither one
of us is able to say you know what this doesn't make any sense.
Hey, are you looking at what our enemy is doing?
This is, this seems kind of dumb.
The power of the group think there, the power of, you know, we always talk about right,
you got to detach and you got to take a more strategic view.
These are the freaking generals on both sides at the same time.
At the same time wrapped up in the identical group think when they are getting a daily
dose of reality, the most stark reality that human beings have ever seen.
They're getting slapped in the face with that on the daily basis and they never look
around and say hey you know what, this is freaking stupid.
What are we doing?
This is the sickest group think, fathomable.
It's crazy.
So it's detach.
It's detach but like detaching to the strategic levels, not enough.
If you're surrounded, if you're completely surrounded, if you're in the virtual reality
goggles on, no matter where you look, it's like you're in the game.
You need to take those things off your head.
Alright, this is the last chapter that we're going to cover in this book.
It's called Grand Strategy.
It's going to tie into a lot of things.
This book is concerned with strategy rather than with Grand Strategy or war policy.
To deal adequately with this wider subject would require not only a much larger volume
but a separate volume.
For while Grand Strategy should control strategy, it's principles often run counter to those
which prevail in the field of strategy.
For that very reason, however, it is desirable to include here some indication of the
deeper conclusions to which a study of Grand Strategy leads.
The object in war, so this is an interesting setup.
The setup is, hey, what I've been talking about at this strategic level, we're actually
actually going to have some principles that are countered to that when we go up one more
level.
So this is a very interesting setup.
The object in war is to attain a better piece, even if only from your own point of view.
Hence it is essential to conduct war with constant regard to the piece you desire.
That would appear to be common sense.
What are we trying to get done?
How can we get it done?
Not just to win right now, but how can we set ourselves up in the grand future so that we're
doing what we want to, so in this situation we want to be in.
This is the underlying cloud switch definition of war as a, quote, continuation of fallacy
by other means and quote, the prolongation of that policy through the war into the subsequent
priests must always be born in mind.
So you always have to think about the future.
You always have to think about the future.
You have to think strategically over time.
All at all times a state which expands its strength to the point of exhaustion bankrupts
its own policy and future.
Again, what's the ROI?
What's the ROI and what we're doing?
We are spending all of our capital to make something happen and we look up and cool.
We made it happen, but we have no capital left.
We can't pay our employees.
We can't order anymore of our supplies.
Good job.
No, not a good job.
If you concentrate exclusively on victory with no thought for the after effect, you may
be too exhausted to profit by the peace while it is almost certain that the peace will
be a bad one containing the germs of another war.
This is a lesson supported by abundant experience.
I brought up this quote again, one of the previous podcasts about, hey, cool, you want to
now you're in charge of a wasteland.
How about a leadership capital perspective?
Cool.
I got Dave to do what I told him to do and now he hates working here and he's not going
to do a good job and he's putting his resume out there to everybody else.
Good job.
Cool, but I got him to do what I wanted to do.
I won, but he's got the germs of another war.
And by the way, go look at what happened between World War 1 and World War 2.
Yeah.
Exactly what it is.
It's referring to, let me just, other examples, but that's a freaking perfect one.
No one was happy at the end of that war.
The risks become greater still in any war that is waged by a coalition.
For in such a case, a two complete victory inevitably complicates the problem of making
a Justin Wise peace settlement where there is no longer a counterbalance of an opposing
force to control the appetite to the victors, there is no check on the conflicting views
and interests between party Z. Alliance, what a brilliant statement, right?
This is 19, I guess he's one, this is, so this is after World War 2.
Yeah, absolutely.
It has to be, I mean, that reference to American Russia like that.
Yep, cool.
Yep.
We work together.
And as soon as we don't have our common enemy anymore, now we're pissed at each other.
The divergences then apt to come so acute as to turn the comradeship of common danger
into the hostility of mutual dissatisfaction.
So the ally of one war becomes the enemy in the next, there you go.
Hello, sovia Union.
Yeah.
Versus America.
This raises a further and wider question.
The friction that commonly develops in any alliance system, especially when it has no balancing
force has been one of the factors that have fostered numerous attempts throughout fist
history to find solution infusion.
So joining together, this is like an opulatoon.
You have a platoon.
If you leave them alone for a little while, they'll start fighting each other.
That's just what's going to happen.
There's no balancing forces, no one to go against.
Even if it's this, the training cadre.
That's enough of a, you know, we'll go against those guys, our another platoon.
Once they're alone, they're going to start fighting each other.
So we look for solutions infusion, but history teaches us that in practice, this is apt
to mean domination by one of the constituent elements.
And although there is a natural tendency toward the fusion of small groups and a larger
ones, the usual result of forcing the pace is the confusion of the plans to establish
a comprehensive political unit.
Kind of it.
I will say that's a pretty pessimistic view.
It's a realistic view, but it's a pessimistic view.
More over regrettable as it may seem to the idealist, the experience of history provides
little warmth for the belief that real progress and the freedom that makes progress possible
wise and unification.
And this is something we need to pay attention to.
For where unification has been able to establish unity of ideas, it has usually ended
in uniformity, paralyzing the growth of new ideas.
And where unification has merely brought about an artificial or imposed unity, it is
Erksom.
It's Erksomness has led through discord to disruption.
I love that from a leadership perspective.
We get everyone on board with a plan.
Hey, listen, everyone just lock it up.
We're going with my plan.
It seems to help, right?
It seems to help, but by the way, no one's now thinking.
And on top of that, people are pissed.
Discord.
So now as soon as something goes wrong, we got an element that's breaking off.
You got people complaining.
Why is that?
We're trying to force uniformity.
We're trying to force people to think the same way.
It's a problem.
Vitality springs from diversity, which makes for real progress so long as there is mutual
toleration.
Based on the recognition that worse may come from an attempt to suppress differences
than from acceptance of them.
Again, if you're in a leader and you got someone that's a little outside the lines
and all you do is beat them into submission, it's not helping.
For this reason, the kind of piece that makes progress possible is best assured by the mutual
checks created by a balance of forces alike in the sphere of internal politics and of
international relations.
So he goes into a little bit about the balance of power and politics.
He says any monopoly of power leads to ever repeated demonstrations of the historical truth,
epitomized and Lord Acton's famous dictum all power corrupts and absolute power corrupts
absolutely.
Another conclusion which develops from the study of Grand Strategy against the background
of history is the practical necessity of adapting the general theory of strategy to the
nature of a nation's fundamental policy.
God, make sure you're aligned.
Goes into the difference between an acquisition of state and a conservative state, meaning
hey, my state is going out to acquire other properties that we're going to go on the attack
and a conservative state, which is hey, we're just trying to maintain what we've got.
The Equisitive State inherently unsatisfied needs to gain victory in order to gain its
object and must therefore court greater risks in the attempt.
The conservative state can achieve its object by merely inducing the aggressor to drop his
attempt at conquest by convincing him that the game is not worth the candle.
In victory, its victory isn't a real sense attained by foiling one's bid.
One side's, look, by foiling the other side's bid for victory.
Indeed, in attempting more, it may defeat its own purpose by exhausting itself so much
that it's unable to resist other enemies or the internal effects of overstrain.
If exhaustion in war has killed more states than any foreign assailants and how often do
we see that in companies?
How often do we see in companies where they are just going so hard and investing in so
many different places and chewing up their teams?
We have to be cognizant of that.
Waving these factors, the problem that can be seen that the problem of a conservative
state is to find the type of strategy that is suited to fulfill its inherently more limited
object in the most strengthened, serving way so as to ensure future as well as presence.
Now, there's a reason I'm covering this part because of this statement.
At first glance, it might seem that pure defense would be the most economical method.
But this implies static defense and historical experience warns us that it is dangerously
brittle method on which to rely.
Economy of force and deterrent affect our best combined in defensive offensive method
based on high mobility that carries the power of a quick repost.
And a quick repost is a move in fencing.
It's a thrust in fencing.
So it's cool to think, you know what?
We're just going to conserve.
We're going to stay here.
We're going to be on the defensive.
But we have to remember that historically speaking.
And when he's talking about historically speaking, he's talking about a massive swath of history
that he's looked at to confirm that you've got to have some offense.
You've got to be on offense.
And we say this a lot.
Like if you're not growing, you're losing totally.
He's also clearly learned the lesson that he's kind of accused of not applying, which
is the context to the statements where you say, hey, the conservative approach and
all by the way, if you're over there thinking that I'm telling you dig in and be conservative,
that's not what I'm saying.
And to clarify and have the understanding of the common itself, so the comment or the headline
doesn't become the story, which he referenced so many times of, hey, the statement became
its own interpretation, the same became its own truth when it's not really what he meant.
But he didn't actually take the time to make sure his disciples, his learners understood,
I'm not saying dig in.
I'm not saying that.
And I know if you're hearing that, let me be more clear what this approach really
means.
And that's clearly a lesson he's taken from.
The other leaders that didn't do that and the outcomes of that creates when you don't
actually explain what you mean.
We talked about almost as a joke inside of your, don't care, or you know, hold the line.
And if you're hearing, I hold the line on all things.
Let me be more clear.
That's not what I'm saying.
I'm saying this, this, and this, and this, and this, and how you apply this.
So I really like the idea that he's taking the comment and then giving the context around
us people can understand what he's talking about.
The people that are actually studying what he's saying.
The idea of the dichotomy of leadership, that idea came to me because I was working with
these young junior officers.
And you know what they want to do?
They want to do good.
So if you tell them to be aggressive, cool, got it.
They are on freaking level 14, berserk remote.
They're charging into whatever.
You tell them not to move.
You tell them, hey, make sure you take the high ground.
Cool, guess what they're doing.
They're running to the top of every freaking hill that they see.
Yeah.
So, so anything that I would tell them, there was a, there was, they had a proclivity
to take it to the extreme.
And so within like one or two iterations at our land warfare training facility, I was
like, okay, I got to tell these guys that there has to be balance.
That everything that I'm saying has to be balanced.
Every single thing that I'm saying has to be balanced.
If you take anything that I'm saying and you take it to an extreme, it's going to be
bad.
So I tried to do the same thing.
It's kind of a universal, I mean, I hate to say it's like a cop out.
You know, because it's like, you know, if your ego's, you're saying ego's no good.
No, actually, it's a balance, right?
And it kind of sounds like a cop out.
Does it sound like a little bit of a cop out?
Echo channels, you seem to agree with me.
Yeah, I mean, it can, yeah, but no.
Yes, but no.
I mean, it's a real bummer, I think, not a bummer, but someone will say, well, you're
saying that, you know, you're saying that the ego is bad, but the ego's, the ego's, you
know, I don't want to hire people that bunch of pushovers.
Yeah.
Yeah, I know man, that's the dichotomy and they're kind of like, oh, they're like,
they think I don't have that, they forget that I have that.
You know, and it's why I feel like bad sometimes pulling the dichotomy card, but it's the
truth.
Yeah.
The truth is, man, you take something to the extreme and it's bad.
That's the truth.
You still don't like it?
No, I agree with you where it's like, you know that it's not a cop out.
In fact, it's the opposite of a cop out.
Yeah.
It's just more to it than that.
In fact, when someone doesn't recognize the dichotomy, that might be the more of the
cop out.
It's kind of like, oh, you say go here, oh, I went there.
I went there.
That's what you said, right?
It's like, right, you got to start using your judgment a little bit.
You know?
Yep.
You were talking about, does it sound like a cop out?
And in the scenarios of top-gun, you know, everything is like a scenario.
What do I do in this situation?
How do I react?
And like the classic answer, the classic answer was always, it depends.
Which had this feeling of like, it's a cop out.
It's a cop out and like, oh, you don't really know or you don't have to be definitive
because at their times when people want a black and white, they want a black and white
answer.
If I have this situation, what do I do?
It depends.
Well, it actually depends.
But it actually does depend.
It's not a cop out.
It does.
Because it's not satisfying and it requires like contemplation and understanding of the
nuance and how did I get here in the first place?
What am I trying to accomplish?
So I was just thinking to myself when you were talking about this feeling of it sounds
like a cop out was the answer I gave 5000 times a top-gun to the students.
It depends.
And then you got a digging and go through it and go, well actually in the case that you're
describing, this might actually be a better answer than in the same situation but driven
by another goal or got there for a different reason, hey, I might go a different direction
here.
And then you as a leader have to actually apply some judgment in real time as opposed to this
situation requires this response.
Well, it's not that simple.
Hey, a salty leader.
What are you doing way back there when they're all bogged down up in the front?
Yeah.
Well, you told me not to get engaged in like the room room clearance.
Totally.
But they're bogged down.
Yeah.
That you're example of where should the platoon commander be in a patrol?
It depends.
Yeah, where it makes sense.
Totally.
Could be in the front?
Could be in the back?
Could be in the middle?
No.
And I guess we've hit this.
I'm probably beating at dead horse a little bit but the unsatisfying nature of that answer
when I got to the basic school.
I'm a brand new second lieutenant.
And we get to the the the the basic school and right outside of the main headquarters building
is this giant bronze statue of the lieutenant.
And he's in this post.
He's got his rifle.
His porno's arm up and it says follow me.
You know, which is what they push you.
He's lead from the front.
Get out in front of your man.
And in a lot of ways.
That's right.
To have that.
But in a lot of ways, it's actually not right.
But place yourself where you need to be is nowhere near as cool as cool as follow me.
Lead from the front.
But if that's what you hey, I lead from the front like cool.
You have no idea what's going on back here.
And half of your guys just got hammered because of that.
There's this, I think this compulsion, which is why the class would think plays so well
to the, the, the, even just the catch phrases of leadership, which don't actually serve
a leader very well.
Lead from the front.
Who's going to say like that's a terrible leadership philosophy, but actually sometimes
you don't want to be in the front.
Yeah, which is why I have a section in leadership strategy and tactics, which is actually
called lead from the rear.
Totally.
So it kind of like, you have to like the more under because there has to be the formula
right at some level.
Like obviously at the, at the surface, the formula is like, or you might, someone might
make them mistake the formula is lead from the front at all times, right?
But that's not the formula.
Formal is it depends.
Okay, on what?
And there's a formula under there.
But then under there, you're like, okay, well, if this and this and this, it depends a
little bit more.
And the deeper you go, there has to be some formula, right?
No.
Okay, so that and that's what I was going to say too here.
So the, the, the formula, you know what, I have the formula, you know what the formula
is?
It's in that economy or Dave will tell you the formula is, it depends.
Yeah.
So I feel like, yeah.
So both of those are cop out of answers you don't want to hear them.
No, no, no, no.
No, no, I'm actually agreeing with you.
Like that, that's what I would have said too.
It's going to always depend.
Okay.
So, and also on top of it, there's more than one right answer a lot of the time.
Pretty much all the time, pretty much with very few exceptions, I would think.
There are wrong answers.
Oh, yeah, yeah, I agree with that too.
Okay.
But you're saying there's more than one right answer.
Yeah.
Many cases, yes.
So I would say the solution is the more you understand about all of it, the better decision
you can make and the better, the better educated you will be on what decision to make,
give in the parameters of all of that that caught on me is your dealing with.
Except for the fact that you may not have enough information to make the decision that
seems like it's going to be the perfect decision in which case you kind of screwed up by
not moving a little bit more quickly and making decision based on the information that you
had at that current moment.
Yeah.
But when I'm in, when I'm in, what I'm in by knowing, like educated yourself, not on any
specific scenario, I'm saying on how it works, on the dichotomy of leadership, on the
laws of combat or whatever.
Okay.
Yes.
Understand it.
Well, yeah, then you're going back to what I said, which is the formula is, this is an
dichotomy and you got to be balanced.
Yeah.
That's the formula.
The formula is be balanced.
Yeah.
Like some, the more you know about the whole game, we'll say the more you know when you're
going to be on this side of the dichotomy or leaning on this side of the dichotomy, the more
you know about yourself, the more you know about it, your guys, building relationships
and by the way, the more you know about this and the more you know about how this works,
then you're going to know more about under what types of circumstances you're going to
lean here, early in the.
You know what's cool?
We have a business called echelon front.
Yes, sir.
The reason we have a business called echelon front is because we have to help leaders
work through these issues.
We can't give them a formula that they can then apply across the board in all situations.
But like you're saying, correctly, if they learn to understand the principles,
they can start to make better decisions and write decisions based on their understanding
of these principles and applying them holistically to their scenario.
Right.
Yes, exactly right.
Which I was going to say, yeah, exactly what I'm saying, where, where do you get the formula
from?
Oh, you're probably the most educated on this whole game as far as the game goes, right?
So the more you let's say you consult with a client, right?
The more you consult with them, hopefully the more they're going to learn that same
game and they're going to need you less and less.
Yes, that's the goal.
Yes, sir.
Absolutely.
All right, back to the book.
The East Roman Empire was a case where such an actively conservative strategy had
been carefully found out as a basis of war policy, a fact which goes far to explain
this empire's unrivaled span of existence.
Another example more instinctive than reasoned is provided by the strategy based on
C power that England practiced in her wars from the 16th to the 19th century.
The value of it was shown by the way that her strength kept pace with her growth while
all her rivals broke down and turned through self-exhaustion and war traceable to their
immoderate desire for the immediate satisfaction of outright victory.
Along series of mutually exhausting and devastating wars above all the 30 years of war
has brought head-brought statesmen by the 18th century to realize the necessity when engaged in
war of curbing both their ambitions and their passions in the interests of their purpose.
On the one hand, this realization tended to produce a tacit limitation of warfare and avoidance
of excesses which might damage after the war prospect.
So he's going back in time and say, look, we can't have learned these lessons.
It was a regression.
That's why earlier in the last podcast we talked about, he talked about, class which was
a regression.
We are going backwards.
Because they had figured this stuff out the 30 years war.
I mean, that's the 1600s you got Germany and Sweden, Sweden, Spain and Catholics.
First probably, all kinds are crazy.
Warfare going on to know to know real decisive victory.
It's a problem they realize that.
Their ambitions and passions frequently carry them too far so that the return to peace
found their countries weakened rather than strengthened.
But they had learned to stop short of national exhaustion.
Which again, you take that for leadership capital and we're expanding more than we have.
At the most satisfactory, at the most satisfactory peace settlements, even for the stronger side,
proved to be those which were made by negotiation rather than decisive military issue.
This gradually education in inherent limitations of war was still in process when it was interrupted
by the French Revolution which brought to the top men who were novices in statemanship.
The directorie and its successor Napoleon pursued the vision of an enduring peace through
war after war for 20 years.
There you go.
Napoleon going for peace, 20 years of war.
The pursuit never led to the goal but only to spreading exhaustion and ultimate collapse.
The bankruptcy of the Napoleonic Empire renewed a lesson that had often been taught before.
The impression however came to be obscured by the sunset haze of the Napoleonic myth,
the lesson had been forgotten by the time it was repeated in the war of war 1.
Even after that bitter experience, the statement of the second world war were no wiser.
Although war is contrary to reason, since it is a mean of deciding issues by force when
discussion fails to produce an agreed solution, the conduct of war must be controlled by
reason if its object is to be fulfilled.
Here he goes into how we reasonably conduct war.
1.
While fighting is a physical act, its direction is a mental process.
The better your strategy, the easier you will gain the upper hand and the less it will
cost you.
Very important thing to think about.
2.
Conversely, the more strength you waste, the more you increase the risk of the scales of war
turning against you.
Even if you succeed in winning victory, the less strength you will have to profit by peace.
Just apply that one to World War 1.
And its like, okay, we didn't stop this.
3.
The more brutal your methods, the more bitter you will make your opponents with the natural
result of hardening the resistance you are trying to overcome.
Plus, the more evenly the two sides are matched, the wiser it will be to avoid extremes
of violence which tend to consolidate the enemies troops and people behind their leaders.
I mean, okay, war, yeah, what about leadership perspective on that one?
No, like the more brutal, the more you shut up they even do and I told you to do.
Shut up team, this is what we're doing.
The more you do that, the more resistance you're going to have to overcome.
4.
These calculations extend further.
The more intent you appear to impose a peace entirely of your own choosing by conquest
the stiffer, the obstacle you will raise in your path.
So when I make a peace that's completely, you know, in my favor, cool, I'm going to end
up with problems.
And the more I impose a plan on Dave and his team, the more I'm going to end up with
problems.
And I can see the looks on the people's faces in a company when I tell them that.
It's so hard to believe.
It's so hard to believe that, hey, actually the more efficient way is to say, hey, Dave,
how do you want to do this?
It's so hard to believe that.
It seems so much more efficient for me to say, hey, Dave, here's the plan.
Shut up and do it.
They're going to hear, give this to your team.
Here's the order.
Let's go execute.
Which is funny, because people go, oh, you know, these military, these military wave leading
wouldn't work in the civilian world.
It's like, what are you talking about?
It's always fun.
Life's like, yeah, yeah, this is what exactly what Jockel did with me.
He'd be like, hey, how do you want to do it?
And I'd be like, how does this sound?
I think we'd plan on this.
Okay, cool.
Five, furthermore, if and when you reach your military goal, the more you ask of the defeated
side, the more trouble you will have.
And the more cause you will have to provide for an ultimate attempt to reverse the settlement
achieved by war.
Again, when you impose your plan on people, when you impose your will on people, there
will be Oregon rejection of that.
Force is a vicious cycle or rather a spiral unless its application is controlled by the
most carefully seasoned calculation.
Just think about that.
Is it common thing I tell clients?
You want to lead with minimum force required.
Tell you want to lead.
If I don't have to say anything that's the best.
If I have to say, hey, this is maybe an idea.
If I get to a point where I have to bark in order to someone and tell them, shut up and
do what I told you to do, that's bad.
That's the vicious circle of force.
We don't like it.
Thus war, which begins by denying reason, comes to vindicated, vindicated throughout all
phases of the struggle.
The fighting instinct is necessary to success in the battlefield.
Although even here, the combatant who can keep a cool head has an advantage over the man
who sees red.
That's his little caveat.
He says, but the fighting instinct should always be written on a tight reign.
The statesman who gives that instinct, it's head loses his own.
If you just want to scrap cool, guess what's going to happen?
You're going to lose your own head.
He's not fit to take charge of the fate of a nation.
Victory in the true sense implies that the state of peace and of one's people is better
after the war than before.
The only thing in this sense is only possible if a quick result can be gained or if a
long effort can be economically proportioned to the national resources.
How much are you investing?
How much are you investing of capital from your company?
How much are you investing in leadership capital?
ROI, where's it at?
The end must be adjusted to the means.
We throw that one out all the time.
And it's got the connotations of being a whim.
Focus on your goal.
There's 48 freaking inspirational memes a day set your goal and never fear from it.
Cool.
I got a better idea.
How about the end must be adjusted to the means?
Right?
I want that Lambo.
I want a dream board.
I got a Lambo and I got an infinity pool.
Cool.
How's that Wendy's salary kicking in?
Right?
Adjust your means a little bit, man.
Adjust the end to fit the means.
Sure.
Oh, this is again.
No one's there's no there's no there's not one single inspirational
meme on the gram that says that says the end must be adjusted to the means.
No one says that.
Actually it's the opposite.
It's far as in the inspirational quotes industry.
Well, for lack of a better job.
It's the exact opposite.
Actually, yeah, yeah.
It's like, hey, basically it's like a kid.
Adjust the means to the means.
Or the incident means.
So it's kind of like, hey, don't freaking have this goal that's unrealistic essentially.
Essentially.
Like, it's unrealistic, right?
It's irresponsible.
You have an irresponsible goal right there.
You can like whatever kill yourself doing it.
You should go in the comment should be like your dumb should be right given
that.
Right?
But they'll talk about it.
There's someone right now that's going to hear this bill.
I'm just going to bullshit.
I'm just going to shit.
Yeah.
I'm going to shit you.
You're dead.
Oh, yeah.
If you're down for the thing and I get it because I'm all tap.
Well, heart like if you want to be a bit, you know, for your first 100 million.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
There's people that tap that twice.
Oh yeah.
Right?
100% yes or in.
And like for a moment, they're kind of like pumped.
Yeah, I'm sure they're pumped the whole time.
You tell the end.
It's really, but no.
Well, if you're the guy, if you're the guy who says this, what this book is saying, hey,
like the end must be adjusted to the means.
That's a good goal.
Like that's a lofty goal.
Which, you know, obviously I can't hate unlofty goals.
Wait, that's not even really a lofty goal.
That's just a realistic thing to do as a human.
But the realistic human means.
Yeah.
Well, you know, the first one will be the end must be adjusted to the means.
It's very not inspirational.
They would get downvoted.
Yeah.
You'll be branded as the hate or really.
Oh.
Like that's the point where they, they'll brand you as a hate.
It's like everyone's always hating.
And you know where this goes into the whole idea.
You're talking about of like, about hey, this isn't really sexy.
This is the absolute like, non, this is getting downvoted.
This is getting haters.
Oh yeah.
And what's interesting is who you're going to, who's going to get the up vote, right?
This person is getting, you're getting hated all.
Oh yeah.
Because you're like, actually, it's an unrealistic goal.
You should check yourself.
Right.
All the downer, the doubter, right?
Oh yeah.
The doubter.
Yeah.
And the thing is that get it.
Because everyone's in a great while you'll get someone who achieved this super lofty
goal, not to say that they didn't just the ends to the means.
Because they had the means up, currently at the end of the day, the means were there.
Because they end is there to run.
But he was the thing they had that un, un, un, un, un, un, un, un, un inspirational names.
We'll just say realistic realistic means.
Yeah.
But unless they, they achieved that goal that was kind of untyp, not typically realistic.
It's unrealistic, right?
Compared to we speaking to whatever.
And they achieved it.
I mean, we could easily argue that like, oh, this person did this because they had
the mean.
The means, right?
That had the intellectual horsepower.
They had the educational thing.
They had the how always things set up.
Oh, it's actually a realistic goal.
I know that.
That's what I'm saying.
Where.
But they'll take the, the crazy quantum, quote, unrealistic ends, right?
The goal will say.
But that's the one, right?
The classic president of the United States.
You can do anything you want.
I'm going to send my goal the highest I possibly can in life, president of the United
States.
Right?
So it'll be like, all right, cool.
Therefore, we should all essentially set goals as high as president of the United States.
Right?
Okay.
That's kind of the inspirational message, right?
Meanwhile, the very few individuals that became president of the United States had
the means.
So they're ends technically by definition, we're adjusted.
Their ends were adjusted to the means because they had the means.
It's the same.
Not everyone has the means.
So you've got to adjust those.
Yeah.
Meanwhile, everyone's saying new, new, new, new, new, new.
Don't if you can do it, I can do it too, right?
Which, hey, I'm not saying they can't.
I'm not even saying that.
But I'm saying, hey, man, you've got to be realistic.
Realistic on that can stuff.
Yeah.
Same saying.
If you say that, you just can't say that.
You know what's really crazy is like, I just got slapped in my own face thinking about
this because we're kind of joking about this.
But what he's saying and what he saw was hundreds and hundreds of thousands of soldiers
that were killed because the leadership didn't adjust the ends to the means.
Totally.
Which is crazy to think about.
As you guys are talking, I was thinking my mind, like, people have figured this out.
There are even phrases out there.
The one I kept thinking of as you're talking about this is I remember the phrase, live
within your means.
Like, I've heard that's a phrase.
What it's not is it's not hanging on a poster in any kid's bedroom anywhere.
Like, I don't go to bed tonight.
Like it's an unreal going.
I'm going to live within my means.
The irony inside that is the best way to actually, ultimately expand your means over
time so your means get greater and greater is to do exactly that.
Like, that's the trick to it is the dissatisfaction of the reality is something people overlook.
And the the unfunny part of that, which is the sobering piece that you just mentioned is that
it can actually lead people down a path to do exactly what you just said.
Which, which almost seems not possible except for the fact that these that he specifically
live that in a way that is, what are we doing here?
What are we doing?
What are we expanding to a and what are we accomplishing by doing that?
So it wasn't just the national exhaustion.
It was the national exhaustion with nothing to show for it.
And then the scale of that, which is, which is impossible as opposed to, hey, why don't
we operate within our means here?
Why don't we do that?
Yeah.
And if you fast forward the kid, if there was a kid that had a post on a wall that
certainly lived within your means and therefore they're saving and they're putting together.
And you look at them in 20 years and they're in a way better position than something
that was like, you know, you need the Lambo for whatever.
Right?
Because they're going to end up in debt and they can't invest properly.
And they have to work a job that they don't really like and it's a job that's a dead
end job.
I like all these things add up.
You said something about you being an NBA basketball player.
I would say on record, on a inspirational or demotivational post saying, hey, bro, that's
unrealistic.
I would tell you that.
And I think factually it is under, well, just as factually goes, it is unrealistic.
I don't know that I would tell a high school kid that when he's really into basketball.
I don't know if I would say that.
It'd be unrealistic in certain ways, like if the underserved circumstances or whatever,
but given how you consider it most people how they get into professional sports whenever
they work hard, they really love the sport.
They go through trials and tribulations or whatever and they end up making it kind of a thing.
So if you get someone that's kind of in the beginning of that type of path where that
path is not straight up blocked off or whatever reason, like it would be in your case,
I wouldn't really say that's unrealistic.
The point is there are really cases where it's unrealistic.
So if you tried to be an NBA player, hired the best coach in the world, I get it.
You would wind up exhausting all your research.
I should adjust my end.
I'm going to answer.
You might want to make sure that you're a kid who you don't want to stifle that dream,
you might want to make sure that they're not putting all the rags in that one basket
and two.
Hey, listen, go for it.
But you're not going to drop out of school.
You're not going to stop doing this in this with the ultimate meme of focus on your goals
and block out every distraction.
So I'm done with school because school is stupid because school ain't going to help
me be an NBA player.
Meanwhile, you're five, six, you're done growing.
You're not that good of a shot, but you've got this passion.
You might want to keep that kid on the track of, hey, cool.
I'm out here to crush your dreams.
However, comma, let's consider some other things as you're doing that.
Actually, you should never have a plan B.
That means you're not fully committed to a plan B.
That's right.
You've got a plan B.
I guess you're not committed to planning.
There's inspirational meme for you.
Actually, he addresses some of this here.
Going back to the book, failing a fair prospect of such a victory.
So the end must be adjusted to me as failing a fair prospect of such a victory.
Why statesmanship will miss no opportunity for negotiating peace.
Peace through stalemate based on a coincident recognition by each side of the opponent's
strength is at least preferable to peace through common exhaustion and has often provided
a better foundation for lasting peace.
It is wiser to run risks of war for the sake of preserving peace than to risk run the
risk of exhaustion in war for the sake of finishing with victory.
A conclusion that runs counter to custom but is supported by experience.
So it's better to like, maybe we don't have war and we just kind of maintain peace with
kind of what I've got.
That's a better deal than you know what.
We're just going to exhaust ourselves and hope for some kind of a victory.
Perseverance in war is only justifiable if there is a good chance of a good end.
The prospect of a peace that will balance the sum of human misery incurred in the struggle.
Like each one of these statements, Dave, you just shake your head knowing where it came from.
That's all I'm thinking is every one of these is what he, what this comes from, it's
just how savage that experience had it with been for him.
Indeed, deepening the study of past experience leads to the conclusion that nations might
often have come nearer to their object by taking advantage of a low in the struggle to
discuss a settlement than by pursuing the war with the aim of victory.
History, so look man, you got to look for those opportunities.
We have a little low, hey, you want to keep going with us, or you want to maybe stand down.
History reveals also that in many cases a beneficial peace could have been obtained if
the statesmen of the warring nations had shown more understanding of the elements of psychology
and their peace feelers.
So you get the peace feelers out there like, what?
Let me sense about what's happening here.
And people don't have good understanding of their peace.
They don't recognize their peace feelers.
Their attitude is commonly been to akin to that scene in the typical domestic quarry.
Right?
So now we've got to fight with our wife.
Each party is afraid to appear yielding with the result that when one of them shows any
inclination towards consolation, this is usually expressed in language that is too stiff.
While the other is apt to be slow to respond partly from pride or or obscency and partly
from a tendency to interpret such a gesture as a sign of weakness when it may be a sign of
returning to common sense.
The classic, right?
I'm not going to apologize.
I'm just saying you're sorry.
Yeah, just saying you're sorry.
Sorry.
Don't look weak.
Thus, the faithful moment of passes and the conflict continues to the common damage.
Right?
We are killing ourselves over something that we could easily say, hey, look, I'm sorry,
it's my fault.
Rarely does a continuation serve any good purpose where the two parties are bound to
go on living under the same roof.
This applies even more to modern war than to domestic conflict since the industrialization
of nations has made their fortunes inseparable.
It is the responsibility of statesmanship never to lose sight of the post war prospect
in chasing the mirage of victory.
Where two, where the two sides are two evenly matched to offer reasonable chance of early
success to either the statesman is wise who can learn something from the psychology of strategy.
It is the elementary principle of strategy that if you find your opponent in a strong position
costly to force, you should leave him a line of retreat as the quickest way of loosening
his resistance.
Get personal way out.
It should equally be the principal policy, especially in order to provide your opponent
with a ladder by which he can climb down.
Get people away out.
Give your wife away out in that argument.
Give your subordinate away out in that argument.
Give your boss away out.
Don't make them dig in, don't make them fight to the death.
The question may arise as to whether such conclusions based on the history of war between
so-called civilized states apply to the conditions inherent in a renewal of the type of purely
predatory war that was waged by the barbarian assailants of the Roman Empire or the mixed
religious and predatory war that was pursued by the fanatical followers of Mohammed.
In such wars, any negotiated peace tends to have in itself even less than the normal
value.
It is only two clear from the history that states rarely keep the faith with each other,
save in so far and so long as their promises seem to them to combine with their interests.
That's a good thing to note.
I'm not going to keep any promises if they're not from my benefit.
That's what history tells us.
And now we're talking about extremists, whether it's the barbarians attacking the Romans
or the Islamists attacking the West back in the day.
The less that a nation has regard for moral obligations, the more it tends to respect
physical strength, the deterrent power of a force too strong to be challenged with the
beauty.
You got somebody that's not going to, you make peace with them, but you don't trust them,
guess what?
You better be strong.
People don't respect the moral obligation they respect strength.
In the same way, with individuals, it is a matter of common experience that the bully
type and the Robert type hesitate to assail anyone who approaches their own strength.
Check.
You don't see the bully picking on the big yoke-dupe guy with cauliflower ears.
It is folly to imagine that the aggressive types of weather individuals or nations can
be bought off or in modern language appeased since the payment of dangheld simulates
a demand for more dangheld.
What's dangheld you asked?
It's Viking protection money.
Like hey, you can live here.
I need some dangheld.
You got to pay me a little bit of something.
And what does that do?
Makes me want more.
Oh, the Viking?
Yeah.
But dang, I need some protection money from you.
You can work this corner, but you got to give me my cut.
What does that make me want more cut?
So you can't buy them off.
But they can be curb.
They're very belief in force makes it more susceptible to the deterrent effect of a formidable
opposing force. This forms an adequate check except against pure fanaticism, a fanaticism
that is unmixed.
So you get pure fanaticism, it doesn't matter if I'm going to kill you or not.
You're going to come.
While it is hard to make real peace with the predatory types, it is easier to induce them
to accept the state of truth and far less exhausting than an attempt to crush them whereby
they are like all types of mankind infused with the courage of desperation.
So we have to be strong.
You have to be strong.
And look, if you're stronger than these predatory fanatics, it doesn't necessarily mean
you want to go to war with them because they're going to fight desperately.
But if you're strong and you can keep them in check, that's sort of a good balance
of power that's acceptable.
I don't know how many more you've got on this, but I'm just thinking of all the things
he's describing, all the behavior and the reaction, the action and the reaction.
It's all human nature.
This is how they will respond to this.
And the repetitiveness and he keeps coming back to this idea is like, this is not
a sample size of one.
This isn't just one thing that's happened in history.
And I think that's the power of the idea of human nature.
This is how people will react.
This is how people will respond.
And if you understand human nature, that to us is the foundation of leadership.
This is a human nature endeavor.
Understanding how people will react.
And anytime we behave in the extremes, there will be a reaction to that.
To us operating in the extremes, there will be a natural human reaction to some other
extreme.
And the easy, like, hey, you want to subduge human nature, be moderate, limit the natural
reaction.
Hey, have a little bit of something over here, have a little something over here, but just
listening to all the things you're saying is a human nature, human nature, human nature.
Yeah.
And the response to be balanced, be balanced, be balanced, be balanced.
Be defined, be defined, be in the middle to limit to minimize the reaction that you're
going to get.
Total war.
Cool.
You win.
Guess what you got now?
You got an insurgency.
It's going to last for 20 years.
And is that really what you want?
Or could you maybe operate with some restraint understanding that what you're really
trying to do is not beat them?
What you're really trying to do is create a piece for a couple of decades, maybe?
Could you think of the long game here?
Again, that's probably not going on a post or somewhere.
So you're not getting recruited into the Marine Corps without one.
Here's a little warning for us.
The experience of history brings ample evidence that the downfall of civilized states tends
to come out from the direct assaults of foes, but from internal decay combined with the consequences
of exhaustion in war.
That's a little warning.
A state of suspense is trying.
And as usage of the word suspense, there is like mental indecision.
A state of suspense or mental indecision is trying.
It is often lead nations as well as individuals to commit suicide because they were
unable to bear it.
But suspense is better than to reach exhaustion in pursuit of the mirage of victory.
That's a bold statement.
So indecision can be so bad.
This existence of indecision can be so bad that you can destroy yourself.
You can kill yourself.
You want to kill yourself.
But that's actually better than to just exhaust yourself completely in pursuit of a victory
that can't be had.
What's counter intuitive about that is this idea that humans, we need to go towards.
We need to go.
We need something.
We want something.
We want to struggle.
We want to fight.
What he's saying here is like, let's think twice about that one.
And I think it's probably because he understands what the true exhaustion of a state looks
like.
On a scale that most people can't comprehend.
He said this before I remember it, the mirage of victory, the mirage.
What you are seeing, this goal that you are working towards, it's actually not a thing.
It's not a real thing, it's a mirage.
And you've convinced yourself, victory for me is I defeat Jocca.
That's victory.
And I am going to move towards that until it happens.
But that's actually not a real thing.
It's not a real thing.
Yeah.
And what you'll end up with is an insurgency.
Or exhaustive.
Or whatever else.
Or you'll rule over the Baron Wasteland that I left.
Right.
More over a truce to actual hostility.
Enables a recovery and development of strength while the need for vigilance keeps a nation
on its toes.
So we're looking for a truce.
It's OK.
Peaceful nations are apt however to court unnecessary danger because when once aroused, they
are more inclined to proceed to extremes than predatory nations.
Interesting.
This is like the guy that's sort of quiet and keep me to himself.
But when you piss them off, then they freaking go ham.
That's a technical definition as well.
For the latter making war as a means of gain are usually more ready to call it often.
They find an opponent too strong or too easily overcome.
And this is really the last point for this book that we're going to talk about.
It is the reluctant fighter.
Impheld by emotion and not by calculation who tends to press a fight to the better end.
thereby he too often defeats his own end even if he does not produce his own direct defeat.
For the spirit of barbarism can be weakened only during a cessation of hostilities.
For strengthens it pouring fuel on the flames.
So by attacking people by attacking the barbarians and we attack them we make them stronger.
We make them fight harder.
War makes them stronger.
Makes them fight, makes them resist, pours fuel on the flames.
We can only weaken them by backing off a little bit.
Again, this is not the recruiting poster.
It's so counterintuitive.
It's so counterintuitive to the natural reaction of push harder.
Be more dominant to get the outcome that you want.
So we're here for the truce.
We're here for the compromise.
It's so counterintuitive to what we preach what we want.
Which is total victory.
I like total victory.
That sounds good.
It's a morage.
Just never compromise.
No compromise.
That's another great inspirational.
Because there's none that say, hey, it's really good to compromise oftentimes and kind
of take what you can get and work out a good deal.
That's fair.
We're going to get hammered for this.
Some inspirational meme people are going to be mad at us.
What's crazy is you can probably open up a disciplinary freedom field manual.
We'll pull out some stuff like this.
I got all kinds of stuff in there.
Getting crazy.
Right?
You're going to make me crack it open and start reading.
No.
Guilty as charged.
I'm kind of wanting to.
Well, the good thing about your book is that it's not.
It's not like you've done a good job whether it be in the book itself or compromise.
Page 32, this is when it goes freedom field manual.
When working with other people in dynamic, oh, this is see this is kind of cool.
Here's what it says.
This is just the first thing I opened up to.
When working with other people and dynamic situations in relationships and deals, a person,
especially a leader must compromise.
Finding the common ground between teams, merging different approaches to the same problem,
bridging personalities with people who might not get along, reaching agreements in courses
of action, all of these require compromise.
And in many cases, a failure to compromise is a failure to succeed.
I guess maybe I'm wrong.
I mean, maybe I'm wrong about me writing stuff that's inspirational mean crap.
But those are external compromises with other people, other humans that have their own personalities
and ethos and issues and compromises needed to unify.
So work with them, compromise.
So to work with them, compromise is a must.
Now with yourself.
And then I wait.
But internally, it's different.
With myself, I have to hold the line.
There are areas within myself where I cannot compromise.
I'm going to work hard.
I'm going to train hard.
I'm going to improve myself.
I'm not going to rest on my laurels.
I'm going to confront my own mistakes.
I'm going to own my mistakes and confront them.
I'm going to face my demons.
I'm not going to give up or give out or give in.
I'm going to stand.
I'm going to maintain myself discipline.
And on those points, there will be no compromise, not now, not ever.
Whoa.
That's pretty ins pretty pretty.
We might go meme on that one.
Sure.
Yeah, if you go from the headline to the conclusion there and skip the content of the
middle where it says compromise, not now, not ever.
You got a little cross with an issue here where you're deciding.
I was like, I didn't quite read the context.
But I saw the page that said compromise ended.
It said not now, not ever.
Yeah.
So I think if we go through this book, here's one called fight.
Go down swinging.
And I'll tell you, if you fight with all you have more often than not, you won't
go down at all.
You will win.
But you have to make that attitude part of your everyday life.
Do the extra repetition, run the extra mile, go the extra round, make the right choices,
give the full measure.
I'm in the game.
I think I'm in the inspirational meme game.
Yeah, you are, but what I was going to say is like, yeah, you do that.
But the good thing about having a whole book and a whole podcast and eight million other
books is, or whatever, you're going to explain the whole situation rather than just have
the one post.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah.
I mean, look, the entire book is predicate.
I think the opening salvo you have is, this is about you.
And you say, I am nothing but weakness.
I am nothing but but flaws.
I am nothing but these things.
So this is the, this is what you are with yourself, with self discipline, as opposed
to how I'm going to treat other people around me.
Yes, this is aimed internally.
Totally.
I mean, in a literal sense, and that fight is against, I mean, it's even in the video
that we show it at the most, I am nothing but weakness.
And I'm going to fight against that weakness, that compromise, all those things that
might mind me, that's telling me to do to myself, which is, I think also you could look
in the terms like the difference between imposed discipline and self discipline.
Imposed discipline does not work and self discipline does.
That's simple as that.
And as we impose ourselves on other people, in war, in leadership, in parenting, in insert
any human interaction, human and another human, when you impose your discipline, when
you impose yourself on them, in the end you will lose.
But it's much more efficient just to impose your way.
Yes, faster.
Oh, man.
So there we go.
That's what we're going to cover for this book.
That I've kind of, I guess, foreshadowed some of the other things we're doing in the future.
And it's one of those things.
If you can take these lessons, these lessons written in blood, not just in one more, but
in war after war, after war, and the exclamation point of World War I, you can learn
a lot and you can apply this and we know that it's not as striking, we know it's not as sexy,
we know it's not as mean worthy as some of the more direct approaches.
We know that.
But this is to give the original name, this is how to win wars.
With that speaking of winning wars, echo Charles, we want to win the war on ourselves.
We do.
Yeah, that when you say win wars, when wars, you don't tend to, this is one of the
takeaways that I think, hey dang, that's something good to remember.
When you think about war fair and winning the war, you don't think about the peace that
afterwards, like the aftermath.
So I grew up on quiet.
So the thing about quiet is like, if you get in a fight with someone and you don't resolve
it in a peaceful way, I don't care how.
I don't care if it's kind of, hey, we don't like each other for no good reason and we just
fight him, okay, we're cool, we fought and we're done.
If you don't resolve it in some peaceful way, you got to deal with somebody's cousin.
Somebody's brother, somebody's whoever, neighbor who's just down for the cause or whatever
and you're gonna see him again too.
That's the thing.
You go to the store, he's gonna be there next week or whatever.
So it's kind of one of those things where it's kind of in the back of your mind.
If I'm gonna fight this guy, I sort of got to deal with that content with that long,
that long game.
Is there a methodology to get that resolved post fight?
Yeah, I think so.
I've, all the fights I've ever been in have never been like lasting, like it'd be like
a fight and then we're friends afterwards.
But I was a kid, so I had very little understanding of that.
But nonetheless, the point is where that's something that when we think of warfare, we think
of, oh, defeat, cross your enemies, having driven before you.
You seem to say.
And we don't think about that all the way.
And you got your neighbor, his freaking dog or whatever, his barking, his tree is growing
over your fence and you're gonna, you guys are wearing yours.
It's like, right, you want to do that.
You know, you got to live next to that guy.
When you go to the post office or whatever, you go to your car and you see him getting
his car too, you're like, oh, it's all awkward or whatever.
Like, right, you don't have to do it like that, you know?
Are you really going to achieve the peace that you hoped for by beating this dude's ass
right now?
Yeah, well, just chances are you're not really, if you think a little bit, chances are you're
not thinking, hey, I'm gonna go to the distance right now.
Like, I'm ready to just go, I'm ready to go all in.
I'll fight every cousin, nephew, brother, sister.
I don't care.
Like, but that's where you can end up.
Yeah, we want.
We don't want to end up.
In fact, that's a common thing, especially like with the neighbors or whatever, I'm
going to tell him all, it's usually that kind of, I'm going to tell him off.
I'm not going to take that from him or her, whatever.
And meanwhile, 10, 20, 30 years you're wearing what this neighbor, right next door by the
way.
The feud.
And then this little, total common thing, you know, when all you got to do is be like,
hey, make a peaceful discourse.
And you guys can live neighborly, you seem to say, preferable.
But anyway, yeah, so the point is, like, thinking about that after math or considering
that, it's a thing, you know.
Let's do that.
Like, if you were always someone in your jitter and you'd fight dirty because you want
to win.
And you know, do that stuff then when you're done rolling, you tap them out, hell, yeah.
Everyone's talking about you.
You dirty, nobody respects you.
what he likes, even the community.
Truth.
You've got to be careful with that.
I can still.
All right.
So how can we win the war that we're all fighting
kind of on an individual basis day to day?
With unmitigated daily discipline in all day.
I like it.
So when I say daily discipline,
I mean the energy drink, boom.
So it's healthy for you.
And it gives you the payoff that you
would expect from an energy drink.
Same same, so this is good news for us.
Anyway, so on this path that we're all on,
we need some supplementation.
We could benefit from supplementation.
So we got Choco Fuel to the rescue in a sense.
It's got energy drinks for you healthy.
Good short term and long term.
We got protein, additional protein.
Taste real good.
We got dessert, basically.
dessert.
That's good for you.
Yeah, good short term, good long term.
The aftermath of the bulk of the protein, the dessert.
It's good out from that.
That's a peaceful truth.
It's a peaceful truth.
Yes, sir.
Also, when you drink sacked up, when you immunity acts up,
we got some stuff for that as well.
How about you don't let your joints act up?
How about we get into a continual state of peace
with our joints?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's what I think.
Because to wait, wait for your joints to act up as a bad call.
And I was about to say, preemptive strike on your joints.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, you're like, hey, but a cooperative, you know,
you're going down like the right path there.
I'm like preemptive strike.
Yeah, you see you're joining more for tune with the hang on.
Marine Corps recording for poster out of the state.
It is called joint warfare.
I mean, it's called joint warfare.
No, but preemptive strike on joint issues.
So in issues, yeah, you have to beat them down.
Demand this submission.
Yes.
Be inflammation and to submission with joint warfare.
Don't wait until you have joint issues that's a dumb call.
That's what echo Charles just told you to do.
I'm here to help.
You know, I'm saying, hey, if you don't want to worry about joint issues,
you take the joint warfare and the super-cruit oil.
Yes.
That's it.
If you don't want to worry about colds or sicknesses or fluees or whatever,
you take the vitamin D3.
You take the cold war.
That's going to help you.
Yeah.
Preemptive strike.
Go to war.
Yeah.
Fully.
So you can get all the stuff at vitamin Chum.
You can get all the energy drinks at Wawa and you can get all of everything on Jocca
Fuel.com.
And if you look, if you want to save a little bit of money and you want to save brain
power, get a subscription.
Get a subscription to whatever you want.
It'll show up at your house once a month.
Boom, there's the milk, there's the joint warfare, there's the super-cruit oil.
It's coming in.
When you're worried about it, you can focus on something else.
You can prioritize next to you some other tasks.
Yep.
Speaking of brain power, origin USA.
They got some American-made stuff.
How's that enough to do with brain power?
Right.
You know what I'm talking about?
Don't act like you don't know.
American-American-made denim is for as jeans go.
I was going to call you in a couple of those last-pond cast where you know, speaking
of whatever.
I'm going to talk about something totally different.
That's sort of like become your new mode.
No, yeah, because you got to make the association.
Same thing.
Speaking of pickles.
That's the brain power.
Origin USA.
You can get some jeans.
American-made denim.
That's a big deal.
As far as American-made stuff goes, you got the denim, you got your jeans, you got your
geese rash guards, you got athletic wear, you got belts, you got boots, all made in America
or a gen USA.
Boom.
See?
See what I'm saying about the brain power?
Yeah, that was definitely had a lot to do with brain power.
Also speaking of a lot of brain power, you're expended.
Making that connection.
Speaking of ridiculous.
Speaking of ridiculous, Joko has a store.
Half a watt.
It's called Joko Store.
If you want your discipline equals freedom, shirts.
Right.
Merch.
As far as merch goes.
You're sure this does good on it.
Boom, you can get it there.
You can get all kinds of stuff.
Uh, hats.
Sure.
So that's pretty good.
These are the cards.
Still, so the shirt was your heart on it.
Do you still sell the shirt with your head on it?
You design that shirt.
Just still sell that shirt with your head on it.
Yeah, we still sell it.
Cool.
Best seller.
Really?
Yes.
It sells double the amount of the one with your head on it.
If you must.
No.
Nonetheless, yes, the shirt that Joko designed with my head is on it on there.
Bang.
A bunch of other stuff on there as well.
We have a subscription situation for the shirt.
Some other shirts.
They're exclusive.
I said it.
Exclusive.
Okay.
It's called the shirt locker.
You have, you get one of these shirts every month.
It's a new, they're new, kind of creative for lack of a better term.
Designs.
If you're not part of the shirt locker, you don't get them.
Sorry.
It's like the nature of the locker.
You see?
Okay.
You in a little more simple this time, which was good.
I appreciate it this simplicity of it.
You still can't describe what the shirts are with any, with any sensible.
Yeah.
Well, some things can't be explained.
That's even better.
I like that.
Yeah.
Even to say, look, I can't really explain this, but trust me, you're going to want one
of these shirts.
Okay.
These shirts cannot be explained Joko.
They can only be experienced.
Bang.
So you make this choice whether or not you experience it by you wearing them or by
you seeing someone else wearing them.
That's up to you.
That part is up to you.
It's so low.
Yeah.
Thank you for either regret what you have done or what you have not done.
I think so too.
You see somebody representing in a shirt.
We like, well, that's cool.
I'm going to pick one of those up, but you can't.
It's true.
Yeah.
That's what the field is telling me is for his feet that goes.
So yeah, I did.
They're fueled.
Check this out.
I feel.
Anyway, like I said, JokoStore.com.
That's where you can get this cool stuff.
Speaking of cool stuff.
Yeah.
You can describe this for the guests.
If you want to, because Ecos seems to think that you have in the subscribe to it,
yeah, because you've been listening to 285 episodes.
287 episodes.
That's where you're at.
You're like, you know what?
Maybe today's the night.
Maybe you want to get that whole time.
And we whip out my iPhone and just hit subscribe.
Smash the subscribe button button.
Button.
But yeah.
So anyways, we got this podcast.
We got the Joko on Ravling podcast with DC, Dero Cooper of Marter Made Fame.
We got the grounded podcast.
We got the Warrior Kid podcast.
We also have Joko underground where we have a sovereign location, a virtual sovereign
location where we will not be impeded upon by forces.
So we will do what we want in the Joko underground look.
Hey, here's what's going on in the world.
There's things happening on these platforms.
There's things happening in these platforms.
We don't control the platforms.
There's a possibility that things could happen that could hurt what we're trying to
do.
Whether they start charging you money to listen on these platforms.
Whether they start inserting advertisements into the middle of us talking about World
War I or Vietnam and all of a sudden you're listening to an advertisement about what
that's what it is.
Mattresses.
We don't want to have that happen.
We definitely don't want to be censored for whatever reason.
So we got to have an alternative platform.
We made our own Joko underground.com.
Look, we hopefully we never have to go to it.
It's possible.
If we do, we'll be ready and we appreciate the support to get us ready.
If you want to subscribe to that, we do it a little extra podcast.
We answer a bunch of questions.
We give some amplifying information.
If you want to join it, cost $8.18 a month.
If you can't afford that, it's cool.
Email assistance at jokowinderground.com.
We're just trying to, we're here to hook you up if you need it.
But we appreciate you hooking us up as well.
Freedom isn't free, by the way.
Yep.
We got to maintain that freedom.
We got a YouTube channel speaking of smashing the subscribe button.
And free.
And a post like and comment.
What is it?
Post.
Subscribe.
Subscribe like and comment.
Yeah.
Wouldn't it be annoying if the, like every video, that's what somebody's got to put
in the front of it.
Like and subscribe, that's what it is.
And hit the notification comment too.
No, they say comment.
Oh yeah, and it plus hit the notification.
What are you doing, dude?
Let me know in the comments.
Yeah, let me know in the comments.
They always have some dumb thing to talk about.
Yes, you know.
Most of it.
Yeah, you know what I was thinking.
I was, if you want to see more videos like this could make, let me know in the comments.
Shut up, bro.
We talked about.
You know what?
You're, we'll just say, I'm not going to say your salty.
I'm not going to say that.
I'm a pernalist.
Your salty, but that's not what I'm saying.
The reason that you feel what I think that you're feeling right now about that is because
it's like, it's super obvious.
Like what they're doing, they want to like, they want the intel for the algorithm, right?
The more you want the engagement, right?
Obviously, they want the comments, they want the likes.
They want the, because that's for the algorithm so they can rate their video higher.
So they can, and you, we know that.
We know that.
We're not even mad at that.
Really kind of mad at that.
But they're known, but I think we, or you are mad, quote unquote, at the part where
they try to fake like that's not it.
They try to fake like, oh yeah, you let me know all it.
You know, you, you know, we're just going to be each other.
We're friends almost kind of a feeling and you're like, you don't want to know what I think,
you know, that's what it feels like.
I can't read the guys mind.
So I don't know if you really want to know or not, but that's how it feels.
That's why I feel it too.
Well, I'm, I don't say in the videos like comment, but I read the comments because
they're funny.
They're funny.
And they're good.
And some of them aren't interesting.
Yeah.
Some good tips on books to cover and stuff from YouTube comments.
Literally, that's kind of crazy, right?
Yeah.
So I'll read the comments because they're interesting.
They're funny.
Yeah, YouTube comments kind of have a reputation on that kind of straight up YouTube comments
have the rep, the stigma of being like a cesspool of just like unreasonable negativity.
But I think usually with our stuff, they can be constructive most of the time.
I'm down.
So if you want to leave a comment, leave a comment, like subscribe smash.
Anyway, yes, the point is we do have YouTube channel.
So if you want to look at that, but there you go.
Also, psychological warfare is an album that Jockel did.
I recorded back in the day for the purpose of the other.
Yeah, very hard.
No, man, it was helpful.
It was a very, literally press record.
Right.
That's what recording is.
You press record on the thing.
You think everybody's like super pumped on that?
I think they're very impressed.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, okay, the for you was recorded for the purpose of helping me through my moments
of weakness.
Then we added some other stuff about weaknesses that I don't have, but that other people
might have, which turned out to be the case.
So yeah, if you have some moments of weakness, you're listening to Jockel telling you how
to get over on bones, psychological warfare.
If you want to see a visual representation of how to stay on the path, go to flipsidecampus.com,
Dakota Meyer, his company.
He's putting all stuff kind of cool stuff to hang on your wall and plus is Dakota Meyer,
which is just, well, it's Dakota Meyer.
Got some books.
Final spin coming out soon.
Well, coming out November.
Has that soon?
Depending on when you're listening to this.
So final spin, novel book, poem, transcript.
What did you think you called it?
Text, text, literature.
Literature, literature.
Sure.
Hell yeah.
If you want that first edition, get on it.
Leadership strategy and tactics.
The code, the evaluation protocol, this one of your freedom field, man, you'll read a little
bit of that today.
Way to work, get one, two and three, four, your kids for your neighbors, kids.
Just for every kid that you know, get them on the path when they're young, Mikey,
the dragons about face by hack worth, which I wrote the forward to extreme ownership
in the Dakota Meyer leadership.
Ashilam Front.
What do we do at Ashilam Front Dave?
We solve your problems, who leadership?
What about problems that aren't leadership problems?
If I've said it once, I've said it a thousand times.
All your problems, our leadership problems.
I stole that though.
Who'd you do it for?
Somebody.
Go to echelonfront.com.
If you need help inside your company, that's what we do.
We have EF Online.com where we teach leadership principles online.
This is your leadership gym.
So where you're going and get some sets, get some reps, get it done.
Work up a little leadership sweat.
Do some role playing.
Ask some questions.
Where they're all the time.
We have a conference that we put on.
I don't know if that's the best word, but we have an event that we do.
I don't even know if that's the right word.
Anyways, there's a thing you can come to, which is called the master.
We talk about leadership for two days.
We do activities.
Come and check it out.
Phoenix, August 17th and 18th, Las Vegas, October 28th and 29th.
We have something called the FTX coming up.
July 12th and 13th.
If you want to check that out, it's tactical training with the emphasis on leadership.
You can take the leadership principles that we talk about all the time and imply them
an tactical environment, which will then be able to transfer.
For whatever environment you're in.
And if you want to help service members, active and retired their families, Goldstar
families, check out Mark Lee's mom.
Mom and Lee, she's got a charity organization.
And if you want to donate or you want to get involved, then go to America's MightyWorriers.com.org.
Sorry.
And if you want to hear, if you want to hear more of this of my,
fringingly long, just reading a text.
If you want to hear echo Charles randomly ranting about God knows what.
If you want to hear Dave getting hyped up on things that don't matter, you'll find us on
the interwebs on Twitter, on the Graham, on Facebook,
echo is that echo Charles.
Dave is that David, our Burke and I am at Jocca Willink.
And to all of the uniformed personnel out there in the military who take these strategies
and put them into action to protect our way of life.
Thank you for what you do.
And to our police and law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers, correctional
officers, Border Patrol, Secret Service and all first responders.
Thank you for protecting our way of life here at home.
And to everyone else out there, remember that Napoleon, the great military leader, Napoleon
Bonaparte, remember that he pursued his vision a piece for 20 years of war and ended
up defeated and in exile.
Don't do that.
Think strategic.
Just your ends to your means.
Make sure you can actually win.
Make sure you can see that pathway to victory.
Make sure you can see those pathways plural to victory and then start down that path.
And then give it everything you got.
Until next time, this is Dave and Echo and Jockel.
Ow.